---
date: 2022-09-26 12:00
description: My approach to giving and receiving feedback.
# tags: software development, communication
excerpt: <p>These are some thoughts that I've developed in my experience working with teams that make software. While much of this relates to what I've learned in the context of software development, I believe these things to be generally applicable to life and relationships.</p>
---

# On Giving and Receiving Feedback

_I wrote this to share with my students for an iOS app development class I am
teaching at the University of Colorado's [ATLAS Institute](https://www.colorado.edu/atlas/).
I want to provide a framework for how I give feedback, and to encourage my
students to take a thoughtful approach to working with others._

These are some thoughts that I've developed in my experience working with teams
that make software. While much of this relates to what I've learned in the
context of software development, I believe these things to be generally
applicable to life and relationships.


## The Purpose of Feedback

The immediate purpose of feedback is to improve the quality of whatever is being
worked on. But the process — if done thoughtfully — can lead to something deeper
and more significant: the growth and improvement of the people involved.


## Receiving Feedback

People are sensitive about their work. I am. It's uncomfortable. And the
more care and thought you put into it, the easier it is to feel defensive or
hurt when criticized.

Most people simply can't receive "negative" feedback in a constructive
manner[1](#footnotes).

But if you truly care about your work and you want to get better, you must learn
to invite feedback and receive it constructively.

Without perspectives from other people, our work will never become as good as it
could be — and neither will we. Learning how to receive criticism earnestly is
difficult, but important. To spurn criticism is a wasted opportunity. Whether
the criticism is valid or not, there is usually something to be learned.

When your work is criticized, that's an opportunity to question why you did it
that way and to explore your work more deeply.

If you question yourself and find the criticism to be misguided, now that's an
opportunity to defend your work and explain why you did it that way. This gives
you the valuable experience of explaining and articulating your reasons, and it
provides an opportunity for the other person to grow or learn something too.

Remember that no matter how invested you are in what you do, you are not your
work. And seek balance in your life, so that you are not invested in your work
to the point at which it defines you.


## Providing Feedback

Some goals I have when providing feedback are:

- to improve the product
- to treat people well and to encourage their growth
- to get what I want

Ideally, these are all the same thing. If "what I want" is not aligned with the
previous goals, something is out of balance.

It's not just that I think _what I want_ is always the best decision for the
product — but I believe that great products require the people who develop them
to fight for what they think is right.

With that in mind, some of what I'm discussing here is about effective
persuasion. Being persuasive[2](#footnotes) is a bit of an art; it requires
delicacy, nuance, and intuition. I hesitated to include thoughts about
persuasion in this essay, but in terms of being effective in my work
environments, I consider it to be an incredibly important skill that has
benefited both me and my clients.


### Tone

People have different ideas about what makes for an appropriate tone to use when
providing feedback. You have to find what works for you and those you're working
with. Effective communication considers the target audience, so your tone should
appropriately differ based on who you are communicating with.

Personally, I prefer a straightforward, concise approach to feedback. Focus on
the work, not the person.

My ideal team would be made up of people who respect one another and provide
straightforward and thoughtful feedback that challenges the others to do their
best work.

#### _Too Hard_

I've seen people give valid feedback in ways that are simply too harsh for the
feedback to be received well. And unnecessarily so. If you want your feedback to
actually matter, it must be positioned with care.

One pitfall is to treat the product as the ultimate goal of utmost importance.
That's what we're all here to work on, right? But the way we treat other people
is important, too. The way you treat others reflects strongly on your character,
and it affects your ability to be effective in your work environment.

There are people who are smart enough or indispensable enough to get away with
some pretty bad behavior for a long time, but that usually turns out poorly for
everyone involved. How about being stellar at what you do _and_ treating people
well? Now that's something to strive for.


#### _Too Soft_

I've also seen people trying to be sensitive to the point where it becomes
counterproductive.

For instance, if there's a typo, saying "maybe this word should be spelled
correctly? What do you think?" isn't a helpful tone. It introduces uncertainty
to something that should not be uncertain. The example may be a bit drastic, but
I've seen people communicate that way. When there is ambiguity, it leads to
unsure expectations, and trying to soften feedback too much can often lead to
more frustration and hurt feelings in the end.

Sensitivity is important, but to be overly deferential isn't a true sign of
respect. I think we should show respect by providing honest, thoughtful
criticism.

Use phrases like "I think ...", "maybe ...", "do you think ...?" honestly — not
just to soften your feedback. Say what you really mean. Do not equivocate.


#### _Just Right_

Ultimately, it's all about balance. The key is to cultivate environments in
which feedback is expected and appreciated.

I'm all for tearing apart designs and learning from each other. I quite enjoy
that. But a relationship needs some bones before it can stand up to that kind of
criticism, so tread into that carefully.

Read the environment, and do what you can to improve it.


### Encouragement

Learn to encourage others.

I don't think that "negative" feedback should be
[book-ended with positive statements](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=shit%20sandwich%20feedback).
I find that practice to be condescending and ineffectual.

I do think it's important — and often more effective — to give positive feedback
as well as negative. It's easy to take the good for granted and mainly notice
what you don't like. It takes an active effort to keep an eye out for the good, and
to recognize and encourage it.

Point out good design, things that are well done, things that you like. Express
appreciation for attention to detail, the amount of hard work that went into
something, and the ways in which teammates are growing and improving. Be genuine.

One of my favorite ways to do this is to point out things that I learn from
others. When reviewing code, I like to look for interesting ways of implementing
things that I wouldn't have thought of, and am always looking out to learn new
APIs or language features that I'm not familiar with.

Adopting this practice helps you learn more than you would if you're only
looking for the negative.


### Ask Questions

It's often better to say "is there a reason you did it this way?" rather than
stating how you would have done it yourself. If you don't understand how
something works, ask about it. Demonstrating that you are willing and eager to
ask questions and learn from others fosters an environment in which feedback is
welcomed. This is important regardless of your experience or seniority.

Asking questions is often more effective than making statements, and it opens a
line of conversation in which everyone can learn.

Offering suggestions for improvements is better than simply pointing out
problems. It's okay to say "I don't think this is great, but I don't have a
solution in mind yet." But you should at least explore solutions yourself before
saying something.


### Things to consider:

#### Is the feedback expected or requested?

In most software engineering teams, developers are expected to review one
another's code, so in the context of code reviews, my feedback is expected and
desired.

As a software engineer I am primarily hired for my skills in writing code and I
am often tasked with implementing existing "finished designs" that were designed
by professional, full-time user interface designers. As much as I would like my
clients to see me as a more than "just an engineer" I recognize that it is not
often the case, especially at the beginning of an engagement.

With care, I have been able to earn some respect in those areas by carefully
providing unrequested feedback in a manner that can be well received.

Stereotypes being what they are, it's often hard for software engineers' design
opinions to be taken seriously. But many caring software engineers know the
platforms and interface patterns better than a lot of designers do. I've seen
this lead to a lot of frustration, but thoughtful communication and feedback can
help.

#### Everyone has different goals, priorities, and knowledge.

Don't assume that others are going after the same things you are. Find ways to
get what you want that also fulfill the needs and desires of others.

#### Is it the right time to present your feedback?

It's best to address overarching design concerns at the beginning of the
process — before a lot of effort goes into implementation. Try to spot problems
and express concern as early as possible in the design process.

Sometimes problems don't show themselves right away so that's not always
possible, but try to be proactive in identifying possible issues.

Are you feeling angry or upset about something that just happened? It might be
good to wait a bit before responding.


#### You don't need to say everything.

I have often found that it is more beneficial to provide feedback on just the
most important issues, rather than pointing out everything that is wrong.

There's a certain pleasure to tearing apart a design when you can find 1000
things wrong with it. But to communicate effectively and get what you
actually want, you must learn to show restraint.

In fact, if a design has serious flaws, you can often get the whole thing
reconsidered by pointing out just one large problem. This can help preserve your
influence and reputation. If you try to assert superiority by exhaustively
criticizing something to the best of your ability, you can develop a reputation
for being difficult, and people will be less likely to want to involve you in
the future. It's no wonder. People just don't like their work being torn apart.

Being concise is also valuable in terms of people receiving what you want to
communicate. Your feedback should be as long as it needs to be, and no
longer. It's hard to leave things out, but you have to choose your priorities
wisely.

### When a Decision is Made

Move forward, and put your heart into it. Don't be bitter if things didn't go
your way. And there's no need for a snarky "I told you so" if things go wrong
and you saw it coming.

<hr class="partial" />

As iron sharpens iron, so one person sharpens another. Steve Jobs compares a
team working really hard at something they're passionate about as being
[like a rock tumbler](https://youtu.be/Qdplq4cj76I?t=1m41s), in which they
polish each other and the ideas they're working on.

Strive for relationships that invite and hold up to mutual criticism. Nurture
your relationships so that criticism can be both given and received, and avoid
those that cannot learn to receive caring criticism, yet give their own in an
uncaring manner.

So please, criticize <s>me</s> my work. But do it thoughtfully. Do it with an
open mind. And do it with good intentions.


1) [This study](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3040066)
explores how people respond to "disconfirming feedback" and finds that most
people avoid it and often terminate relationships in which it exists. [This
interview](https://hbr.org/2018/01/negative-feedback-rarely-leads-to-improvement)
with one of the authors provides more insight.
2) There's a subtle distinction between persuasion and manipulation, and I think
that comes down to motives. I don't condone manipulation.

