---
date: 2021-03-30 12:00
description: I made a new website
tags:
image:
---

# zef.studio

My relationship with the internet has largely been `readonly`, but I’m trying to
change that.

Sharing things on the internet has long been a difficult thing for me. There was
a time when I felt like I didn't share much because I don't have anything to
say, but I realized that that's not really the case. I think it's more that I
didn't want to share in the ways that

When I think about, there are a lot of reasons I've identified that I don't
write,

I could (might?) write a separate post on all the reasons I think I _don't_
share


When thinking about the types of things I want to post, I find there is a
tension regarding what I think is worth posting and what isn’t. Even when
thinking about writing this very post I doubt myself. Why should I write the
cliche “my first post” that exists on most blogs, just prior to their probable
abandonment? Who cares? Why would anyone want to read that?

My own insecurities such as these are part of what has inhibited me from
contributing and sharing very much of my work online.

I’ve realized that the answer to the question “who cares?” really doesn't
matter beyond the fact that _I care_. I want to do this for myself, even if
nobody else reads it. With that in mind, I intend to treat it as a personal
journal and archive of some of my projects. Something that will be valuable to
me for years to come, and to look back upon many years into the future. These
goals are served by the method I have chosen to use to setup the site. Perhaps
I will expand on some of these ideas later.

Of course I hope that people will find my projects interesting and useful, but I
know that I

I want to make this a place where I can make a little part of the web that I
wish were more ubiquitous. No ads. Just sharing a small part of my life here
with anyone who might be interested.

## What I desire

So I've had this itch to have my own website — a vague picture of what I want to
do with this website. I've put a lot of work into it already now, and as I try
to clarify my intentions, I am asking myself: what do I want to get out of this?

### _I want to play my part in making the internet what I want it to be._

Sometimes it feels like there’s just everything available somewhere online. But
I think that’s really quite far from the truth. There is so much information
that is missing from the internet; perhaps it’s there somewhere, but not well
presented, or buried in forum threads, or maybe lost in the black hole of social
media timelines.

I often find myself searching for something that I can't find, and end up doing
some legwork myself to find the answer and solve a problem. I want to do my part
to fill in these gaps as I find them, and I do hope that others will find them
useful.

### _I want to do my best work for myself._

For years as a freelance software engineer, I have done my best work for my
clients, and largely neglected my own projects, ideas, and online involement.
This has bothered me for a long time, and I'd like to do a better job of
investing in my own personal work.

It's not that I haven't spent time on my own projects — but for the most part I
have not seen them through to fruition.

I have a hard time sharing work that I'm not proud of, and for me that's a high
bar. I'd like to get over this.

### _I want people to find it inspiring, useful, and educational._

### _I want to learn._

### _I want to grow in the practice of writing._

I'm a strong believer in the idea that _writing is thinking_. Writing
articulately is invaluable, and it's something I'd like to spend more time
doing. Putting a thought into writing is not the simple relocation of the idea
from your head to words on a page, but indeed plays a critical role in the
formulation of the thought itself.

In my career, my favorite people to work with are excellent communicators.
Specifically in their written communication. The value of someone who can read
effectively and write with clarity simply cannot be overstated.

It's common for people to just want to "hop on a quick call" in lieu of putting
in the time to read and write to one another. Admittedly, the writing process
_is_ more time consuming than a conversation, but it absolutely pays off.

Given the effort

I suppose I do a decent amount of writing, and I enjoy that. But I haven't been
doing any writing _in public_, and I'd like to.


## The Web I Want to Create

This is my refuge. This is my National Forest.


The web has become so hopelessly polluted.

The ads, the monetization. The cookie pop-ups. The heavy, bloated,
resource-intensive websites. The endless oceans of SEO-driven blog spam. So much
_noise_.

It's revolting to me, and I want none of that.

Less terribly, but still distasteful


So welcome. I hope you like it here, and that you come often.


## How I made this site, and why.

In a web that's saturated with generic Squarespace websites.

In a world where modern and current design trends dictate sans-serif fonts I
chose a serif font.

In a climate of bloated websites that are over reliant on JavaScript and
template frameworks, I handcoded a lightweight website that uses JavaScript for
only the image gallery.
