---
date: 2021-05-30 12:00
description: What I want to do with this site
tags: zef.studio
image:
---

# What I Want for This Website

So I've had this itch to have my own website — a vague picture of what I want to
do with this website. I've put a lot of work into it already now, and as I try
to clarify my intentions, I am asking myself: what do I want to get out of this?

### I want to play my part in making the internet what I want it to be.

Sometimes it feels like there’s just everything available somewhere online. But
I think that’s really quite far from the truth. There is so much information
that is missing from the internet; perhaps it’s there somewhere, but not well
presented, or buried in forum threads, or maybe lost in the black hole of social
media timelines.

I often find myself searching for something that I can't find, and end up doing
some legwork myself to find the answer and solve a problem. I want to do my part
to fill in these gaps as I find them, and I do hope that others will find them
useful. That's just one category of things that I would like to post, but it's
something I think is important.

### I want to do my best work for myself.

For years as a freelance software engineer, I have invested myself deeply in the
work of my clients, and largely neglected my own projects, ideas, and online
involvement. This neglect has bothered me for a long time, and I'd like to do a
better job of investing in my own personal work.

It's not that I haven't spent time on my own projects — but for the most part I
have not seen them through to fruition.

### I want to stretch my comfort zone.

I have a hard time sharing work that I'm not proud of, and for me that's a high
bar. I'd like to have a healthier view of this and be more willing to share
things that aren't my best work, or that don't meet my highest expectations or
desires.

### I want people to find it inspiring, useful, and educational.

Although I want to do this for its own intrinsic value and the value that I will
derive from the process, I do want others to see and value it.

### I want to learn.

Writing and sharing is a catalyst for learning. I believe that the process
itself will be a learning experience, but I also have hopes that some of the
learning will happen _after_ publishing, too.

Sharing anything on the internet opens one up to

The internet can be a toxic place, with unbound negativity and nastiness. It can
also be an incredible, helpful place.

I don't really have any kind of audience right now.



### I want to grow in the practice of writing.

I'm a strong believer in the idea that _writing is thinking_. Writing
articulately is invaluable, and it's something I'd like to spend more time
doing. Putting a thought into writing is not the simple relocation of the idea
from your head to words on a page, but indeed plays a critical role in the
formulation of the thought itself.

In my career, my favorite people to work with are excellent communicators.
Specifically in their written communication. The value of someone who can read
effectively and write with clarity simply cannot be overstated.

It's common for people to just want to "hop on a quick call" in lieu of putting
in the time to read and write to one another. Admittedly, the writing process
_is_ more time consuming than a conversation, but it absolutely pays off.


Given the effort

I suppose I do a decent amount of writing, and I enjoy that. But I haven't been
doing any writing _in public_, and I'd like to.


### I want to keep looking forward.

Most of the things I've been planning to post on this site are reflective in
nature. I want to keep a healthy balance of reflection and sharing what has
passed, but keep pushing forward to new things.

Steve Jobs:

> "If you do something and it turns out pretty good, then you should go do
> something else wonderful, not dwell on it for too long. Just figure out what's
> next."

