---
date: 2021-06-10 12:00
description: My new website, zef.studio
tags:
image:
---

# zef.studio

My relationship with the internet has largely been `readonly`, but I’m trying to
change that.

Sharing things on the internet has long been a difficult thing for me. There was
a time when I felt like I didn't share much because I don't have anything to
say, but I have realized that that's not really the case. I think it's more that
I don't want to share much on the platforms I have had available to me.

Regarding the major social media platforms, they just aren't somewhere I want to
invest my time an energy.[1](#footnotes)

I love the open, distributed, personalized web. The web in it's purest,
uncontaminated form. Personal websites epitomize some of the best of what the
web has to offer, and I have long desired and intended to have one for myself.

I want this to be my little corner of the internet that that embodies the web
that I wish were more ubiquitous. No ads. Just sharing a small part of my life
with anyone who might be interested.

## What Will I Post About?

To begin with, I intend to primarily post things that I've been making over the
past few years — woodworking, leatherworking, metalworking, 3d printing,
electronics, repairs, and things I'm learning as I pursue designing and creating
physical objects.

I have a wide range of interests outside of those areas too, and ultimately I
don't know what I will be wanting to share over time, but my goal is that this
would be a place where I don't have to limit myself based on what I think other
people will be be interested in, but to do my own thing and follow my own whims.

I'd also like to share some travel photos, and perhaps share some occasional
thoughts about some subject or another, though my intentions in that regard are
much less formed.

When thinking about what justifies a post, I find there is a tension regarding
what I think is worth posting and what isn’t. Even when writing this very post I
doubt myself, and want to just throw the whole thing out. Why should I write the
cliche “my first post” that exists on most blogs, just prior to their probable
abandonment? Who cares? Why would anyone want to read that?

My own insecurities such as these are part of what has inhibited me from
contributing and sharing very much of my work online. This is something I'm
trying to get over.

I’ve realized that the answer to the question “who cares?” really doesn't matter
beyond the fact that _I care_. I want to do this for myself — even if nobody else
reads it. With that mindset, I intend to treat it as a personal journal and
archive of some of my projects. Somewhere to reflect on what I have made and
what I am learning. Something that will be valuable to me for years to come, and
to look back upon, many years into the future.

Of course I hope that people will find what I do here interesting and useful. I
hope that people will engage with me. But I have realized that in order for me
to do this, I need to primarily focus on the intrinsic value that I will get
from the process of what I do here. This is the beginning of that process.

## Continuing These Ideas

This post touches on a number of subjects that I would like to elaborate on and
think through more deeply. I intend to do this through some future posts, with
tentative titles:

- The Web I Love
- What I Want for This Website
- Why I Haven't Been Sharing Things on the Internet

I mention this publicly as a small form of personal accountability to encourage
me to follow through with publishing these posts.

So welcome. I hope you like it here, and that you come often. Even if you don't,
I hope that at least _I come often_.

<ol id="footnotes">
  <li>
    I do intend to post links to my website on social media platforms, but using
    social media platforms as distribution networks is a very different thing
    than using them as content platforms.
  </li>
</ol>

